Add guide for custom visualizations (#1122)
newrelic/developer-website: src/markdown-pages/build-apps/build-visualization.mdx

---
path: '/build-apps/build-visualization'
duration: '15 min'
title: 'Build a custom visualization for dashboards'
template: 'GuideTemplate'
description: 'Build and publish a visualization'
resources:
  - title: New Relic One VSCode extension
    url: https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=new-relic.nr1
  - title: 'Build on New Relic One'
    url: https://docs.newrelic.com/docs/new-relic-one/use-new-relic-one/build-new-relic-one/new-relic-one-build-your-own-custom-new-relic-one-application
  - title: New Relic VSCode extension pack
    url: https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=new-relic.new-relic-extension-pack
tags:
  - nr1 cli
  - NR One Catalog
  - Subscribe visualizations
---

<Intro>

> You can build your own visualizations for New Relic One dashboards. This allows you and your organization to query any data sources and display them on your dashboards. In this guide, you'll learn to generate a visualization boilerplate and run it locally in New Relic One's Visualization Explorer where you can quickly test and iterate before publishing.

Reviewer: Suggested revision for intro sentence: "Building your own visualizations for New Relic dashboards enables you and your organization to query data from any source and display it on your dashboard." (This helps to avoid a kind of repeat of the title, and also helps emphasize "any source." )

Also, when you say generate a boilerplate, I'm not sure if that's just for practice, or if that's what someone would normally create.

Author: I like the suggested intro sentence. Thank you!

I'm certainly open to other wording than "boilerplate." It isn't intended to be just for practice. It is referencing the folders and files that get created anytime `nr1 create --type visualization` is ran which reduces the amount of time to get a new visualization started. It provides a starting point for the developer even if they are going to completely wipe out the contents of the index.json file to start from scratch.

To get started, make sure you have a [New Relic](https://newrelic.com/signup/) account.

To develop projects, you need the New Relic One CLI (command line interface).

If you haven't already installed it, do the following:

- Install [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/download/).
- Complete all the steps in the [CLI quick start](https://one.newrelic.com/launcher/developer-center.launcher?pane=eyJuZXJkbGV0SWQiOiJkZXZlbG9wZXItY2VudGVyLmRldmVsb3Blci1jZW50ZXIifQ==).

## Creating a new visualization

In this first set of steps you will use the CLI to quickly generate the boilerplate for a new visualization.

<Steps>

  <Step>

Ensure you're working with the latest version of the New Relic One CLI.

```bash
nr1 update
```

  </Step>

  <Step>

Generate the boilerplate for a visualization using the `nr1 create` command while at the root of your nerdpack project. If you do not yet have a nerdpack project, you can generate a new one by running `nr1 create` and selecting `nerdpack` from the options. If you followed all the steps in the "CLI quick start" above, you already have a new nerdpack project directory (for example, `my-awesome-nerdpack`).

```bash
nr1 create --type visualization
```

> As a result, you have a new visualization directory matching the name you gave your visualization. It is located in the `visualizations` directory in the root of your nerdpack project. <img src="../../images/build-an-app/visualization-boilerplate-files.png" alt="Visualization files generated by CLI" />

Author: Good point! I pushed up a change for this.

  </Step>

  <Step>

You can set prop values and see the visualization update automatically. The Visualization Builder lists the props as defined in the prop definitions located in the nr1.json file in the visualization folder (for example `./visualizations/your-visualization/nr1.json`). Fill in values for the props and see the visualization update automatically. As you change props in the side bar, a render cycle of your visualization's React component is triggered. If looking at the example visualization generated for you, you can enter any CSS color value (name, hex, rgba) in the fill color or stroke color prop inputs and see the plotted data color change.

<img
  src="../../images/build-an-app/visualization-builder-props.png"
  alt="Generated visualization rendered in the Visualization Builder"
/>

  </Step>

  <Step>

Modify the visualization's Javascript code and see the result automatically update in the UI. For example, you can change the value for `fillOpacity` on the Radar component in `index.js`. Upon save you will see the page automatically update.

```js fileName=visualizations/your-visuzalization/index.js
  fillOpacity={1.0}
```

  </Step>

  <Step>

> To add more props, you must update the `configuration` field in the nr1.json file for your visualization and restart the local node server. For an example of what is possible you can reference the nr1.json file of the example visualization.

Author: Yes, more clarification was needed. I added some more content that I feel should clarify.

The props you define in the `configuration` field allow New Relic One to cleanly display a props editing UI for those using the visualization.

  </Step>

</Steps>

## Deploy and use your visualization

When your visualization is ready to be added to dashboards by you and your colleagues, follow these steps.

<Steps>
  
  <Step>
    
Open and follow the guide to [publish and deploy the nerdpack to New Relic One and subscribe accounts to it](/build-apps/publish-deploy).
  
  </Step>
  
  <Step>
    
Then you can [add your visualization to a dashboard](https://docs.newrelic.com/).

  </Step>

</Steps>

## Advance configurations

> 

Author: I removed this section from this guide and linked to the other guide from a callout. Let me know if anything feels off about that!

---

> path: '/build-apps/build-visualization'

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
path: '/build-apps/build-visualizations'
```

Reviewer 2: I suggest pluralizing this as it makes more sense to say it as such.

duration: '15 min'
title: 'Build a custom visualization for dashboards'
template: 'GuideTemplate'
description: 'Create custom data views'
resources:
  - title: New Relic One VSCode extension
    url: https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=new-relic.nr1
  - title: 'Build on New Relic One'
    url: https://docs.newrelic.com/docs/new-relic-one/use-new-relic-one/build-new-relic-one/new-relic-one-build-your-own-custom-new-relic-one-application
  - title: New Relic VSCode extension pack
    url: https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=new-relic.new-relic-extension-pack
tags:
  - nr1 cli
  - NR One Catalog
  - Subscribe visualizations
---

<Intro>

Building your own visualizations for New Relic dashboards enables you and your organization to query data from any source and display it on your dashboard. In this guide, you'll learn how to use the CLI to generate a visualization file structure, run the visualization locally in New Relic One's Visualization Explorer where you can quickly test and iterate, and deploy the visualization for you and others to use on dashboards.

</Intro>

## Before you begin

> To get started, make sure you have a [New Relic](https://newrelic.com/signup/) account.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To get started, make sure you have a [New Relic](https://newrelic.com/signup?utm_source=developer-site) account.
```

> To develop projects, you need the New Relic One CLI (command line interface). If you haven't already installed it, do the following:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To complete this guide, you need the New Relic One CLI (command line interface). If you haven't already installed it, do the following:
```

- Install [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/download/).
- Complete all the steps in the [CLI quick start](https://one.newrelic.com/launcher/developer-center.launcher?pane=eyJuZXJkbGV0SWQiOiJkZXZlbG9wZXItY2VudGVyLmRldmVsb3Blci1jZW50ZXIifQ==).

## Create a new visualization

> In this first set of steps you use the CLI to quickly generate the boilerplate for a new visualization.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this first set of steps you will use the CLI to quickly generate the boilerplate for a new visualization.
```

<Steps>

  <Step>

> Ensure you're working with the latest version of the New Relic One CLI:

Reviewer 2: This may be better surfaced as a call out, by using our callout component: https://github.com/newrelic/gatsby-theme-newrelic/blob/develop/packages/gatsby-theme-newrelic/README.md#callout

```bash
nr1 update
```

  </Step>

  <Step>

> Start with a new Nerdpack. If you just installed the New Relic One CLI, then you have a new Nerdpack project directory (called something like, `my-awesome-nerdpack`). If you need to create one, run `nr1 create` and select the `nerdpack` option.

Reviewer 2: This reads a little confusing, I think it's best to just pick one step and instruct the user to create a new nerdpack, just walk then through the steps to do that so it's more clear.

```bash
nr1 create --type nerdpack --name my-awesome-nerdpack
```

  </Step>

  <Step>

> Navigate to the root of your Nerdpack project, and then run the `create` command.

Reviewer 2: I suggest showing them the path based on the name above.

```bash
cd my-awesome-nerdpack
nr1 create --type visualization --name my-awesome-visualization
```

> As a result, you have a new visualization directory matching the name you gave your visualization. It is located in the `visualizations` directory in the root of your nerdpack project.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As a result, you now have a new visualization directory matching the name giving to your visualization. It is located in the `visualizations` directory in the root of your nerdpack project.
```

<img
  src="../../images/build-an-app/visualization-boilerplate-files.png"
  alt="Visualization files generated by CLI"
/>

The files created provide an example visualization – a radar chart populated by a basic NRQL query.

> The `nr1.json` file provides metadata including the `configuration` field that defines the prop input fields to be shown in the UI. These are the fields users will fill in to create an instance of the visualization. Supported input types are `boolean`, `string`, `number`, `json`, `nrql`, `namespace`, and `collection`. A `namespace` type groups a set of props together in the prop editing UI under a heading. A `collection` defines a set of fields that can be repeated and result in an array prop type. The `nrqlQueries` entry is an example of a collection type.

Reviewer 2: This may be better presented in a our table component so you can define each one of these more visually.  https://github.com/newrelic/gatsby-theme-newrelic/blob/develop/packages/gatsby-theme-newrelic/README.md#table

The `index.js` file is where you define the React component that receives the props and renders the visualization. You can install and import any javascript libraries you find useful. The example component imports [recharts](https://recharts.org), a library that wraps [D3](https://d3js.org) submodules for easy to compose visualizations.

If your visualization queries data over a time range and you want it to utilize the platform time range setting, you will need to utilize the `timeRange` value from [PlatformStateContext](/components/platform-state-context). The `timeRange` can be passed directly to the [NrqlQuery](/components/nrql-query) component. Setting the NrqlQuery component's `pollInterval` prop to `NrqlQuery.AUTO_POLL_INTERVAL` automatically handles calculating an appriate data polling interval.

```js
<PlatformStateContext.Consumer>
  {({timeRange}) => (
    <NrqlQuery
      timeRange={timeRange}
      pollInterval={NrqlQuery.AUTO_POLL_INTERVAL}
    >

>     ...

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

```

>   </Step>

Reviewer 2: This section is all showing as `commented` code in Github, i'm wondering if that due to the line on 92 that I suggested to remove? Is this section rendering correctly locally?

Author: Interesting, it is rendering correctly locally.

</Steps>

## Render the visualization in local development

Now you run the generated visualization locally, and view it in Custom Visualizations, where you can quickly test changes to your code.

<Steps>
  <Step>

Start the local node server for your Nerdpack.

```bash
nr1 nerdpack:serve
```

<Callout variant="important">

> To see changes to the nr1.json file take affect, restart the local node server. For example, changes to the definition of the configuration field will not show up in the prop configuration side bar of the Custom Visualizations UI until you stop the local node server and start it back up.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To see changes to the nr1.json file take affect, restart the local node server. Changes to the definition of the configuration field will not show up in the prop configuration side bar of the Custom Visualizations UI until you stop the local node server and start it back up.
```

Author: Good suggestion. It's not letting me commit via your comment because of an earlier commit conflicting but I made the change and pushed it up just now.

<img
  src="../../images/build-an-app/visualization-builder-props.png"
  alt="Generated visualization rendered in the Visualization Builderr"
/>

  </Step>

  <Step>

Modify the visualization's Javascript code and see the result automatically update in the UI. For example, you can change the value for `fillOpacity` on the Radar component in `index.js`. Upon save, you will see the page automatically update.

```js fileName=visualizations/your-visuzalization/index.js
  fillOpacity={1.0}
```

  </Step>

  <Step>

To add more props, you must update the `configuration` field in the `nr1.json` file for your visualization, and restart the local node server. The props you define in the `configuration` field allow New Relic One to cleanly display a props editing UI for those using the visualization. See above for more information about the `configuration` field.

  </Step>

</Steps>

## Deploy and use your visualization

> When your visualization is ready to be added to dashboards by you and your colleagues, follow these steps.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When your visualization is ready to be added to dashboards just follow these steps.
```

<Steps>

  <Step>

Open and follow the guide to [publish and deploy the nerdpack to New Relic One and subscribe accounts to it](/build-apps/publish-deploy).

  </Step>

  <Step>

Then you can [add your visualization to a dashboard](https://docs.newrelic.com/docs/query-your-data/explore-query-data/dashboards/add-custom-visualizations-your-dashboards).

  </Step>

</Steps>

## Summary

> Now that you've completed the steps in this example, you learned the steps to:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now that you've completed the steps in this example, you've learned the steps to:
```
